codex-rs/app-server/README.md, before:

# codex-app-server

`codex app-server` is the interface Codex uses to power rich interfaces such as the [Codex VS Code extension](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=openai.chatgpt). The message schema is currently unstable, but those who wish to build experimental UIs on top of Codex may find it valuable.

## Table of Contents
- [Protocol](#protocol)
- [Message Schema](#message-schema)
- [Lifecycle Overview](#lifecycle-overview)
- [Initialization](#initialization)
- [Core primitives](#core-primitives)
- [Thread & turn endpoints](#thread--turn-endpoints)
- [Auth endpoints](#auth-endpoints)
- [Events (work-in-progress)](#v2-streaming-events-work-in-progress)

## Protocol

Similar to [MCP](https://modelcontextprotocol.io/), `codex app-server` supports bidirectional communication, streaming JSONL over stdio. The protocol is JSON-RPC 2.0, though the `"jsonrpc":"2.0"` header is omitted.

## Message Schema

Currently, you can dump a TypeScript version of the schema using `codex app-server generate-ts`, or a JSON Schema bundle via `codex app-server generate-json-schema`. Each output is specific to the version of Codex you used to run the command, so the generated artifacts are guaranteed to match that version.

```
codex app-server generate-ts --out DIR
codex app-server generate-json-schema --out DIR
```

## Lifecycle Overview

- Initialize once: Immediately after launching the codex app-server process, send an `initialize` request with your client metadata, then emit an `initialized` notification. Any other request before this handshake gets rejected.
- Start (or resume) a thread: Call `thread/start` to open a fresh conversation. The response returns the thread object and you’ll also get a `thread/started` notification. If you’re continuing an existing conversation, call `thread/resume` with its ID instead.
- Begin a turn: To send user input, call `turn/start` with the target `threadId` and the user's input. Optional fields let you override model, cwd, sandbox policy, etc. This immediately returns the new turn object and triggers a `turn/started` notification.
- Stream events: After `turn/start`, keep reading JSON-RPC notifications on stdout. You’ll see `item/started`, `item/completed`, deltas like `item/agentMessage/delta`, tool progress, etc. These represent streaming model output plus any side effects (commands, tool calls, reasoning notes).
- Finish the turn: When the model is done (or the turn is interrupted via making the `turn/interrupt` call), the server sends `turn/completed` with the final turn state and token usage.

## Initialization

Clients must send a single `initialize` request before invoking any other method, then acknowledge with an `initialized` notification. The server returns the user agent string it will present to upstream services; subsequent requests issued before initialization receive a `"Not initialized"` error, and repeated `initialize` calls receive an `"Already initialized"` error.

Example:

```json
{ "method": "initialize", "id": 0, "params": {
    "clientInfo": { "name": "codex-vscode", "title": "Codex VS Code Extension", "version": "0.1.0" }
} }
{ "id": 0, "result": { "userAgent": "codex-app-server/0.1.0 codex-vscode/0.1.0" } }
{ "method": "initialized" }
```

## Core primitives

We have 3 top level primitives:
- Thread - a conversation between the Codex agent and a user. Each thread contains multiple turns.
- Turn - one turn of the conversation, typically starting with a user message and finishing with an agent message. Each turn contains multiple items.
- Item - represents user inputs and agent outputs as part of the turn, persisted and used as the context for future conversations.

## Thread & turn endpoints

The JSON-RPC API exposes dedicated methods for managing Codex conversations. Threads store long-lived conversation metadata, and turns store the per-message exchange (input → Codex output, including streamed items). Use the thread APIs to create, list, or archive sessions, then drive the conversation with turn APIs and notifications.

### Quick reference
- `thread/start` — create a new thread; emits `thread/started` and auto-subscribes you to turn/item events for that thread.
- `thread/resume` — reopen an existing thread by id so subsequent `turn/start` calls append to it.
- `thread/list` — page through stored rollouts; supports cursor-based pagination and optional `modelProviders` filtering.
- `thread/archive` — move a thread’s rollout file into the archived directory; returns `{}` on success.
- `turn/start` — add user input to a thread and begin Codex generation; responds with the initial `turn` object and streams `turn/started`, `item/*`, and `turn/completed` notifications.
- `turn/interrupt` — request cancellation of an in-flight turn by `(thread_id, turn_id)`; success is an empty `{}` response and the turn finishes with `status: "interrupted"`.
- `review/start` — kick off Codex’s automated reviewer for a thread; responds like `turn/start` and emits a `item/completed` notification with a `codeReview` item when results are ready.

### 1) Start or resume a thread

Start a fresh thread when you need a new Codex conversation.

```json
{ "method": "thread/start", "id": 10, "params": {
    // Optionally set config settings. If not specified, will use the user's
    // current config settings.
    "model": "gpt-5.1-codex",
    "cwd": "/Users/me/project",
    "approvalPolicy": "never",
    "sandbox": "workspaceWrite",
} }
{ "id": 10, "result": {
    "thread": {
        "id": "thr_123",
        "preview": "",
        "modelProvider": "openai",
        "createdAt": 1730910000
    }
} }
{ "method": "thread/started", "params": { "thread": { … } } }
```

To continue a stored session, call `thread/resume` with the `thread.id` you previously recorded. The response shape matches `thread/start`, and no additional notifications are emitted:

```json
{ "method": "thread/resume", "id": 11, "params": { "threadId": "thr_123" } }
{ "id": 11, "result": { "thread": { "id": "thr_123", … } } }
```

### 2) List threads (pagination & filters)

`thread/list` lets you render a history UI. Pass any combination of:
- `cursor` — opaque string from a prior response; omit for the first page.
- `limit` — server defaults to a reasonable page size if unset.
- `modelProviders` — restrict results to specific providers; unset, null, or an empty array will include all providers.

Example:

```json
{ "method": "thread/list", "id": 20, "params": {
    "cursor": null,
    "limit": 25,
} }
{ "id": 20, "result": {
    "data": [
        { "id": "thr_a", "preview": "Create a TUI", "modelProvider": "openai", "createdAt": 1730831111 },
        { "id": "thr_b", "preview": "Fix tests", "modelProvider": "openai", "createdAt": 1730750000 }
    ],
    "nextCursor": "opaque-token-or-null"
} }
```

When `nextCursor` is `null`, you’ve reached the final page.

### 3) Archive a thread

Use `thread/archive` to move the persisted rollout (stored as a JSONL file on disk) into the archived sessions directory.

```json
{ "method": "thread/archive", "id": 21, "params": { "threadId": "thr_b" } }
{ "id": 21, "result": {} }
```

An archived thread will not appear in future calls to `thread/list`.

### 4) Start a turn (send user input)

Turns attach user input (text or images) to a thread and trigger Codex generation. The `input` field is a list of discriminated unions:

- `{"type":"text","text":"Explain this diff"}`
- `{"type":"image","url":"https://…png"}`
- `{"type":"localImage","path":"/tmp/screenshot.png"}`

You can optionally specify config overrides on the new turn. If specified, these settings become the default for subsequent turns on the same thread.

```json
{ "method": "turn/start", "id": 30, "params": {
    "threadId": "thr_123",
    "input": [ { "type": "text", "text": "Run tests" } ],
    // Below are optional config overrides
    "cwd": "/Users/me/project",
    "approvalPolicy": "unlessTrusted",
    "sandboxPolicy": {
        "mode": "workspaceWrite",
        "writableRoots": ["/Users/me/project"],
        "networkAccess": true
    },
    "model": "gpt-5.1-codex",
    "effort": "medium",
    "summary": "concise"
} }
{ "id": 30, "result": { "turn": {
    "id": "turn_456",
    "status": "inProgress",
    "items": [],
    "error": null
} } }
```

### 5) Interrupt an active turn

You can cancel a running Turn with `turn/interrupt`.

```json
{ "method": "turn/interrupt", "id": 31, "params": {
    "threadId": "thr_123",
    "turnId": "turn_456"
} }
{ "id": 31, "result": {} }
```

The server requests cancellations for running subprocesses, then emits a `turn/completed` event with `status: "interrupted"`. Rely on the `turn/completed` to know when Codex-side cleanup is done.

### 6) Request a code review

Use `review/start` to run Codex’s reviewer on the currently checked-out project. The request takes the thread id plus a `target` describing what should be reviewed:

- `{"type":"uncommittedChanges"}` — staged, unstaged, and untracked files.
- `{"type":"baseBranch","branch":"main"}` — diff against the provided branch’s upstream (see prompt for the exact `git merge-base`/`git diff` instructions Codex will run).
- `{"type":"commit","sha":"abc1234","title":"Optional subject"}` — review a specific commit.
- `{"type":"custom","instructions":"Free-form reviewer instructions"}` — fallback prompt equivalent to the legacy manual review request.
- `appendToOriginalThread` (bool, default `false`) — when `true`, Codex also records a final assistant-style message with the review summary in the original thread. When `false`, only the `codeReview` item is emitted for the review run and no extra message is added to the original thread.

Example request/response:

```json
{ "method": "review/start", "id": 40, "params": {
    "threadId": "thr_123",
    "appendToOriginalThread": true,
    "target": { "type": "commit", "sha": "1234567deadbeef", "title": "Polish tui colors" }
} }
{ "id": 40, "result": { "turn": {
    "id": "turn_900",
    "status": "inProgress",
    "items": [
        { "type": "userMessage", "id": "turn_900", "content": [ { "type": "text", "text": "Review commit 1234567: Polish tui colors" } ] }
    ],
    "error": null
} } }
```

Codex streams the usual `turn/started` notification followed by an `item/started`
with the same `codeReview` item id so clients can show progress:

```json
{ "method": "item/started", "params": { "item": {
    "type": "codeReview",
    "id": "turn_900",
    "review": "current changes"
} } }
```

When the reviewer finishes, the server emits `item/completed` containing the same
`codeReview` item with the final review text:

```json
{ "method": "item/completed", "params": { "item": {
    "type": "codeReview",
    "id": "turn_900",
    "review": "Looks solid overall...\n\n- Prefer Stylize helpers — app.rs:10-20\n  ..."
} } }
```

The `review` string is plain text that already bundles the overall explanation plus a bullet list for each structured finding (matching `ThreadItem::CodeReview` in the generated schema). Use this notification to render the reviewer output in your client.

## Auth endpoints

The JSON-RPC auth/account surface exposes request/response methods plus server-initiated notifications (no `id`). Use these to determine auth state, start or cancel logins, logout, and inspect ChatGPT rate limits.

### Quick reference
- `account/read` — fetch current account info; optionally refresh tokens.
- `account/login/start` — begin login (`apiKey` or `chatgpt`).
- `account/login/completed` (notify) — emitted when a login attempt finishes (success or error).
- `account/login/cancel` — cancel a pending ChatGPT login by `loginId`.
- `account/logout` — sign out; triggers `account/updated`.
- `account/updated` (notify) — emitted whenever auth mode changes (`authMode`: `apikey`, `chatgpt`, or `null`).
- `account/rateLimits/read` — fetch ChatGPT rate limits; updates arrive via `account/rateLimits/updated` (notify).

### 1) Check auth state

Request:
```json
{ "method": "account/read", "id": 1, "params": { "refreshToken": false } }
```

Response examples:
```json
{ "id": 1, "result": { "account": null, "requiresOpenaiAuth": false } } // No OpenAI auth needed (e.g., OSS/local models)
{ "id": 1, "result": { "account": null, "requiresOpenaiAuth": true } }  // OpenAI auth required (typical for OpenAI-hosted models)
{ "id": 1, "result": { "account": { "type": "apiKey" }, "requiresOpenaiAuth": true } }
{ "id": 1, "result": { "account": { "type": "chatgpt", "email": "user@example.com", "planType": "pro" }, "requiresOpenaiAuth": true } }
```

Field notes:
- `refreshToken` (bool): set `true` to force a token refresh.
- `requiresOpenaiAuth` reflects the active provider; when `false`, Codex can run without OpenAI credentials.

### 2) Log in with an API key

1. Send:
   ```json
   { "method": "account/login/start", "id": 2, "params": { "type": "apiKey", "apiKey": "sk-…" } }
   ```
2. Expect:
   ```json
   { "id": 2, "result": { "type": "apiKey" } }
   ```
3. Notifications:
   ```json
   { "method": "account/login/completed", "params": { "loginId": null, "success": true, "error": null } }
   { "method": "account/updated", "params": { "authMode": "apikey" } }
   ```

### 3) Log in with ChatGPT (browser flow)

1. Start:
   ```json
   { "method": "account/login/start", "id": 3, "params": { "type": "chatgpt" } }
   { "id": 3, "result": { "type": "chatgpt", "loginId": "<uuid>", "authUrl": "https://chatgpt.com/…&redirect_uri=http%3A%2F%2Flocalhost%3A<port>%2Fauth%2Fcallback" } }
   ```
2. Open `authUrl` in a browser; the app-server hosts the local callback.
3. Wait for notifications:
   ```json
   { "method": "account/login/completed", "params": { "loginId": "<uuid>", "success": true, "error": null } }
   { "method": "account/updated", "params": { "authMode": "chatgpt" } }
   ```

### 4) Cancel a ChatGPT login

```json
{ "method": "account/login/cancel", "id": 4, "params": { "loginId": "<uuid>" } }
{ "method": "account/login/completed", "params": { "loginId": "<uuid>", "success": false, "error": "…" } }
```

### 5) Logout

```json
{ "method": "account/logout", "id": 5 }
{ "id": 5, "result": {} }
{ "method": "account/updated", "params": { "authMode": null } }
```

### 6) Rate limits (ChatGPT)

```json
{ "method": "account/rateLimits/read", "id": 6 }
{ "id": 6, "result": { "rateLimits": { "primary": { "usedPercent": 25, "windowDurationMins": 15, "resetsAt": 1730947200 }, "secondary": null } } }
{ "method": "account/rateLimits/updated", "params": { "rateLimits": { … } } }
```

Field notes:
- `usedPercent` is current usage within the OpenAI quota window.
- `windowDurationMins` is the quota window length.
- `resetsAt` is a Unix timestamp (seconds) for the next reset.

### Dev notes

- `codex app-server generate-ts --out <dir>` emits v2 types under `v2/`.
- `codex app-server generate-json-schema --out <dir>` outputs `codex_app_server_protocol.schemas.json`.
- See [“Authentication and authorization” in the config docs](../../docs/config.md#authentication-and-authorization) for configuration knobs.


## Events (work-in-progress)

Event notifications are the server-initiated event stream for thread lifecycles, turn lifecycles, and the items within them. After you start or resume a thread, keep reading stdout for `thread/started`, `turn/*`, and `item/*` notifications.

### Turn events

The app-server streams JSON-RPC notifications while a turn is running. Each turn starts with `turn/started` (initial `turn`) and ends with `turn/completed` (final `turn` plus token `usage`), and clients subscribe to the events they care about, rendering each item incrementally as updates arrive. The per-item lifecycle is always: `item/started` → zero or more item-specific deltas → `item/completed`.

#### Thread items

`ThreadItem` is the tagged union carried in turn responses and `item/*` notifications. Currently we support events for the following items:
- `userMessage` — `{id, content}` where `content` is a list of user inputs (`text`, `image`, or `localImage`).
- `agentMessage` — `{id, text}` containing the accumulated agent reply.
- `reasoning` — `{id, summary, content}` where `summary` holds streamed reasoning summaries (applicable for most OpenAI models) and `content` holds raw reasoning blocks (applicable for e.g. open source models).
- `mcpToolCall` — `{id, server, tool, status, arguments, result?, error?}` describing MCP calls; `status` is `inProgress`, `completed`, or `failed`.
- `webSearch` — `{id, query}` for a web search request issued by the agent.

All items emit two shared lifecycle events:
- `item/started` — emits the full `item` when a new unit of work begins so the UI can render it immediately; the `item.id` in this payload matches the `itemId` used by deltas.
- `item/completed` — sends the final `item` once that work finishes (e.g., after a tool call or message completes); treat this as the authoritative state.

There are additional item-specific events:
#### agentMessage
- `item/agentMessage/delta` — appends streamed text for the agent message; concatenate `delta` values for the same `itemId` in order to reconstruct the full reply.
#### reasoning
- `item/reasoning/summaryTextDelta` — streams readable reasoning summaries; `summaryIndex` increments when a new summary section opens.
- `item/reasoning/summaryPartAdded` — marks the boundary between reasoning summary sections for an `itemId`; subsequent `summaryTextDelta` entries share the same `summaryIndex`.
- `item/reasoning/textDelta` — streams raw reasoning text (only applicable for e.g. open source models); use `contentIndex` to group deltas that belong together before showing them in the UI.

Commit message:

[app-server] update doc with codex error info (#6941)
Document new codex error info. Also fixed the name from
`codex_error_code` to `codex_error_info`.

codex-rs/app-server/README.md, after:

# codex-app-server

`codex app-server` is the interface Codex uses to power rich interfaces such as the [Codex VS Code extension](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=openai.chatgpt). The message schema is currently unstable, but those who wish to build experimental UIs on top of Codex may find it valuable.

## Table of Contents
- [Protocol](#protocol)
- [Message Schema](#message-schema)
- [Lifecycle Overview](#lifecycle-overview)
- [Initialization](#initialization)
- [Core primitives](#core-primitives)
- [Thread & turn endpoints](#thread--turn-endpoints)
- [Auth endpoints](#auth-endpoints)
- [Events (work-in-progress)](#v2-streaming-events-work-in-progress)

## Protocol

Similar to [MCP](https://modelcontextprotocol.io/), `codex app-server` supports bidirectional communication, streaming JSONL over stdio. The protocol is JSON-RPC 2.0, though the `"jsonrpc":"2.0"` header is omitted.

## Message Schema

Currently, you can dump a TypeScript version of the schema using `codex app-server generate-ts`, or a JSON Schema bundle via `codex app-server generate-json-schema`. Each output is specific to the version of Codex you used to run the command, so the generated artifacts are guaranteed to match that version.

```
codex app-server generate-ts --out DIR
codex app-server generate-json-schema --out DIR
```

## Lifecycle Overview

- Initialize once: Immediately after launching the codex app-server process, send an `initialize` request with your client metadata, then emit an `initialized` notification. Any other request before this handshake gets rejected.
- Start (or resume) a thread: Call `thread/start` to open a fresh conversation. The response returns the thread object and you’ll also get a `thread/started` notification. If you’re continuing an existing conversation, call `thread/resume` with its ID instead.
- Begin a turn: To send user input, call `turn/start` with the target `threadId` and the user's input. Optional fields let you override model, cwd, sandbox policy, etc. This immediately returns the new turn object and triggers a `turn/started` notification.
- Stream events: After `turn/start`, keep reading JSON-RPC notifications on stdout. You’ll see `item/started`, `item/completed`, deltas like `item/agentMessage/delta`, tool progress, etc. These represent streaming model output plus any side effects (commands, tool calls, reasoning notes).
- Finish the turn: When the model is done (or the turn is interrupted via making the `turn/interrupt` call), the server sends `turn/completed` with the final turn state and token usage.

## Initialization

Clients must send a single `initialize` request before invoking any other method, then acknowledge with an `initialized` notification. The server returns the user agent string it will present to upstream services; subsequent requests issued before initialization receive a `"Not initialized"` error, and repeated `initialize` calls receive an `"Already initialized"` error.

Example:

```json
{ "method": "initialize", "id": 0, "params": {
    "clientInfo": { "name": "codex-vscode", "title": "Codex VS Code Extension", "version": "0.1.0" }
} }
{ "id": 0, "result": { "userAgent": "codex-app-server/0.1.0 codex-vscode/0.1.0" } }
{ "method": "initialized" }
```

## Core primitives

We have 3 top level primitives:
- Thread - a conversation between the Codex agent and a user. Each thread contains multiple turns.
- Turn - one turn of the conversation, typically starting with a user message and finishing with an agent message. Each turn contains multiple items.
- Item - represents user inputs and agent outputs as part of the turn, persisted and used as the context for future conversations.

## Thread & turn endpoints

The JSON-RPC API exposes dedicated methods for managing Codex conversations. Threads store long-lived conversation metadata, and turns store the per-message exchange (input → Codex output, including streamed items). Use the thread APIs to create, list, or archive sessions, then drive the conversation with turn APIs and notifications.

### Quick reference
- `thread/start` — create a new thread; emits `thread/started` and auto-subscribes you to turn/item events for that thread.
- `thread/resume` — reopen an existing thread by id so subsequent `turn/start` calls append to it.
- `thread/list` — page through stored rollouts; supports cursor-based pagination and optional `modelProviders` filtering.
- `thread/archive` — move a thread’s rollout file into the archived directory; returns `{}` on success.
- `turn/start` — add user input to a thread and begin Codex generation; responds with the initial `turn` object and streams `turn/started`, `item/*`, and `turn/completed` notifications.
- `turn/interrupt` — request cancellation of an in-flight turn by `(thread_id, turn_id)`; success is an empty `{}` response and the turn finishes with `status: "interrupted"`.
- `review/start` — kick off Codex’s automated reviewer for a thread; responds like `turn/start` and emits a `item/completed` notification with a `codeReview` item when results are ready.

### 1) Start or resume a thread

Start a fresh thread when you need a new Codex conversation.

```json
{ "method": "thread/start", "id": 10, "params": {
    // Optionally set config settings. If not specified, will use the user's
    // current config settings.
    "model": "gpt-5.1-codex",
    "cwd": "/Users/me/project",
    "approvalPolicy": "never",
    "sandbox": "workspaceWrite",
} }
{ "id": 10, "result": {
    "thread": {
        "id": "thr_123",
        "preview": "",
        "modelProvider": "openai",
        "createdAt": 1730910000
    }
} }
{ "method": "thread/started", "params": { "thread": { … } } }
```

To continue a stored session, call `thread/resume` with the `thread.id` you previously recorded. The response shape matches `thread/start`, and no additional notifications are emitted:

```json
{ "method": "thread/resume", "id": 11, "params": { "threadId": "thr_123" } }
{ "id": 11, "result": { "thread": { "id": "thr_123", … } } }
```

### 2) List threads (pagination & filters)

`thread/list` lets you render a history UI. Pass any combination of:
- `cursor` — opaque string from a prior response; omit for the first page.
- `limit` — server defaults to a reasonable page size if unset.
- `modelProviders` — restrict results to specific providers; unset, null, or an empty array will include all providers.

Example:

```json
{ "method": "thread/list", "id": 20, "params": {
    "cursor": null,
    "limit": 25,
} }
{ "id": 20, "result": {
    "data": [
        { "id": "thr_a", "preview": "Create a TUI", "modelProvider": "openai", "createdAt": 1730831111 },
        { "id": "thr_b", "preview": "Fix tests", "modelProvider": "openai", "createdAt": 1730750000 }
    ],
    "nextCursor": "opaque-token-or-null"
} }
```

When `nextCursor` is `null`, you’ve reached the final page.

### 3) Archive a thread

Use `thread/archive` to move the persisted rollout (stored as a JSONL file on disk) into the archived sessions directory.

```json
{ "method": "thread/archive", "id": 21, "params": { "threadId": "thr_b" } }
{ "id": 21, "result": {} }
```

An archived thread will not appear in future calls to `thread/list`.

### 4) Start a turn (send user input)

Turns attach user input (text or images) to a thread and trigger Codex generation. The `input` field is a list of discriminated unions:

- `{"type":"text","text":"Explain this diff"}`
- `{"type":"image","url":"https://…png"}`
- `{"type":"localImage","path":"/tmp/screenshot.png"}`

You can optionally specify config overrides on the new turn. If specified, these settings become the default for subsequent turns on the same thread.

```json
{ "method": "turn/start", "id": 30, "params": {
    "threadId": "thr_123",
    "input": [ { "type": "text", "text": "Run tests" } ],
    // Below are optional config overrides
    "cwd": "/Users/me/project",
    "approvalPolicy": "unlessTrusted",
    "sandboxPolicy": {
        "mode": "workspaceWrite",
        "writableRoots": ["/Users/me/project"],
        "networkAccess": true
    },
    "model": "gpt-5.1-codex",
    "effort": "medium",
    "summary": "concise"
} }
{ "id": 30, "result": { "turn": {
    "id": "turn_456",
    "status": "inProgress",
    "items": [],
    "error": null
} } }
```

### 5) Interrupt an active turn

You can cancel a running Turn with `turn/interrupt`.

```json
{ "method": "turn/interrupt", "id": 31, "params": {
    "threadId": "thr_123",
    "turnId": "turn_456"
} }
{ "id": 31, "result": {} }
```

The server requests cancellations for running subprocesses, then emits a `turn/completed` event with `status: "interrupted"`. Rely on the `turn/completed` to know when Codex-side cleanup is done.

### 6) Request a code review

Use `review/start` to run Codex’s reviewer on the currently checked-out project. The request takes the thread id plus a `target` describing what should be reviewed:

- `{"type":"uncommittedChanges"}` — staged, unstaged, and untracked files.
- `{"type":"baseBranch","branch":"main"}` — diff against the provided branch’s upstream (see prompt for the exact `git merge-base`/`git diff` instructions Codex will run).
- `{"type":"commit","sha":"abc1234","title":"Optional subject"}` — review a specific commit.
- `{"type":"custom","instructions":"Free-form reviewer instructions"}` — fallback prompt equivalent to the legacy manual review request.
- `appendToOriginalThread` (bool, default `false`) — when `true`, Codex also records a final assistant-style message with the review summary in the original thread. When `false`, only the `codeReview` item is emitted for the review run and no extra message is added to the original thread.

Example request/response:

```json
{ "method": "review/start", "id": 40, "params": {
    "threadId": "thr_123",
    "appendToOriginalThread": true,
    "target": { "type": "commit", "sha": "1234567deadbeef", "title": "Polish tui colors" }
} }
{ "id": 40, "result": { "turn": {
    "id": "turn_900",
    "status": "inProgress",
    "items": [
        { "type": "userMessage", "id": "turn_900", "content": [ { "type": "text", "text": "Review commit 1234567: Polish tui colors" } ] }
    ],
    "error": null
} } }
```

Codex streams the usual `turn/started` notification followed by an `item/started`
with the same `codeReview` item id so clients can show progress:

```json
{ "method": "item/started", "params": { "item": {
    "type": "codeReview",
    "id": "turn_900",
    "review": "current changes"
} } }
```

When the reviewer finishes, the server emits `item/completed` containing the same
`codeReview` item with the final review text:

```json
{ "method": "item/completed", "params": { "item": {
    "type": "codeReview",
    "id": "turn_900",
    "review": "Looks solid overall...\n\n- Prefer Stylize helpers — app.rs:10-20\n  ..."
} } }
```

The `review` string is plain text that already bundles the overall explanation plus a bullet list for each structured finding (matching `ThreadItem::CodeReview` in the generated schema). Use this notification to render the reviewer output in your client.

## Auth endpoints

The JSON-RPC auth/account surface exposes request/response methods plus server-initiated notifications (no `id`). Use these to determine auth state, start or cancel logins, logout, and inspect ChatGPT rate limits.

### Quick reference
- `account/read` — fetch current account info; optionally refresh tokens.
- `account/login/start` — begin login (`apiKey` or `chatgpt`).
- `account/login/completed` (notify) — emitted when a login attempt finishes (success or error).
- `account/login/cancel` — cancel a pending ChatGPT login by `loginId`.
- `account/logout` — sign out; triggers `account/updated`.
- `account/updated` (notify) — emitted whenever auth mode changes (`authMode`: `apikey`, `chatgpt`, or `null`).
- `account/rateLimits/read` — fetch ChatGPT rate limits; updates arrive via `account/rateLimits/updated` (notify).

### 1) Check auth state

Request:
```json
{ "method": "account/read", "id": 1, "params": { "refreshToken": false } }
```

Response examples:
```json
{ "id": 1, "result": { "account": null, "requiresOpenaiAuth": false } } // No OpenAI auth needed (e.g., OSS/local models)
{ "id": 1, "result": { "account": null, "requiresOpenaiAuth": true } }  // OpenAI auth required (typical for OpenAI-hosted models)
{ "id": 1, "result": { "account": { "type": "apiKey" }, "requiresOpenaiAuth": true } }
{ "id": 1, "result": { "account": { "type": "chatgpt", "email": "user@example.com", "planType": "pro" }, "requiresOpenaiAuth": true } }
```

Field notes:
- `refreshToken` (bool): set `true` to force a token refresh.
- `requiresOpenaiAuth` reflects the active provider; when `false`, Codex can run without OpenAI credentials.

### 2) Log in with an API key

1. Send:
   ```json
   { "method": "account/login/start", "id": 2, "params": { "type": "apiKey", "apiKey": "sk-…" } }
   ```
2. Expect:
   ```json
   { "id": 2, "result": { "type": "apiKey" } }
   ```
3. Notifications:
   ```json
   { "method": "account/login/completed", "params": { "loginId": null, "success": true, "error": null } }
   { "method": "account/updated", "params": { "authMode": "apikey" } }
   ```

### 3) Log in with ChatGPT (browser flow)

1. Start:
   ```json
   { "method": "account/login/start", "id": 3, "params": { "type": "chatgpt" } }
   { "id": 3, "result": { "type": "chatgpt", "loginId": "<uuid>", "authUrl": "https://chatgpt.com/…&redirect_uri=http%3A%2F%2Flocalhost%3A<port>%2Fauth%2Fcallback" } }
   ```
2. Open `authUrl` in a browser; the app-server hosts the local callback.
3. Wait for notifications:
   ```json
   { "method": "account/login/completed", "params": { "loginId": "<uuid>", "success": true, "error": null } }
   { "method": "account/updated", "params": { "authMode": "chatgpt" } }
   ```

### 4) Cancel a ChatGPT login

```json
{ "method": "account/login/cancel", "id": 4, "params": { "loginId": "<uuid>" } }
{ "method": "account/login/completed", "params": { "loginId": "<uuid>", "success": false, "error": "…" } }
```

### 5) Logout

```json
{ "method": "account/logout", "id": 5 }
{ "id": 5, "result": {} }
{ "method": "account/updated", "params": { "authMode": null } }
```

### 6) Rate limits (ChatGPT)

```json
{ "method": "account/rateLimits/read", "id": 6 }
{ "id": 6, "result": { "rateLimits": { "primary": { "usedPercent": 25, "windowDurationMins": 15, "resetsAt": 1730947200 }, "secondary": null } } }
{ "method": "account/rateLimits/updated", "params": { "rateLimits": { … } } }
```

Field notes:
- `usedPercent` is current usage within the OpenAI quota window.
- `windowDurationMins` is the quota window length.
- `resetsAt` is a Unix timestamp (seconds) for the next reset.

### Dev notes

- `codex app-server generate-ts --out <dir>` emits v2 types under `v2/`.
- `codex app-server generate-json-schema --out <dir>` outputs `codex_app_server_protocol.schemas.json`.
- See [“Authentication and authorization” in the config docs](../../docs/config.md#authentication-and-authorization) for configuration knobs.


## Events (work-in-progress)

Event notifications are the server-initiated event stream for thread lifecycles, turn lifecycles, and the items within them. After you start or resume a thread, keep reading stdout for `thread/started`, `turn/*`, and `item/*` notifications.

### Turn events

The app-server streams JSON-RPC notifications while a turn is running. Each turn starts with `turn/started` (initial `turn`) and ends with `turn/completed` (final `turn` plus token `usage`), and clients subscribe to the events they care about, rendering each item incrementally as updates arrive. The per-item lifecycle is always: `item/started` → zero or more item-specific deltas → `item/completed`.

- `turn/started` — `{ turn }` with the turn id, empty `items`, and `status: "inProgress"`.
- `turn/completed` — `{ turn }` where `turn.status` is `completed`, `interrupted`, or `failed`; failures carry `{ error: { message, codexErrorInfo? } }`.

Today both notifications carry an empty `items` array even when item events were streamed; rely on `item/*` notifications for the canonical item list until this is fixed.

#### Errors
`error` event is emitted whenever the server hits an error mid-turn (for example, upstream model errors or quota limits). Carries the same `{ error: { message, codexErrorInfo? } }` payload as `turn.status: "failed"` and may precede that terminal notification.

  `codexErrorInfo` maps to the `CodexErrorInfo` enum. Common values:
  - `ContextWindowExceeded`
  - `UsageLimitExceeded`
  - `HttpConnectionFailed { httpStatusCode? }`: upstream HTTP failures including 4xx/5xx
  - `ResponseStreamConnectionFailed { httpStatusCode? }`: failure to connect to the response SSE stream
  - `ResponseStreamDisconnected { httpStatusCode? }`: disconnect of the response SSE stream in the middle of a turn before completion
  - `ResponseTooManyFailedAttempts { httpStatusCode? }`
  - `BadRequest`
  - `Unauthorized`
  - `SandboxError`
  - `InternalServerError`
  - `Other`: all unclassified errors

When an upstream HTTP status is available (for example, from the Responses API or a provider), it is forwarded in `httpStatusCode` on the relevant `codexErrorInfo` variant.

#### Thread items

`ThreadItem` is the tagged union carried in turn responses and `item/*` notifications. Currently we support events for the following items:
- `userMessage` — `{id, content}` where `content` is a list of user inputs (`text`, `image`, or `localImage`).
- `agentMessage` — `{id, text}` containing the accumulated agent reply.
- `reasoning` — `{id, summary, content}` where `summary` holds streamed reasoning summaries (applicable for most OpenAI models) and `content` holds raw reasoning blocks (applicable for e.g. open source models).
- `mcpToolCall` — `{id, server, tool, status, arguments, result?, error?}` describing MCP calls; `status` is `inProgress`, `completed`, or `failed`.
- `webSearch` — `{id, query}` for a web search request issued by the agent.

All items emit two shared lifecycle events:
- `item/started` — emits the full `item` when a new unit of work begins so the UI can render it immediately; the `item.id` in this payload matches the `itemId` used by deltas.
- `item/completed` — sends the final `item` once that work finishes (e.g., after a tool call or message completes); treat this as the authoritative state.

There are additional item-specific events:
#### agentMessage
- `item/agentMessage/delta` — appends streamed text for the agent message; concatenate `delta` values for the same `itemId` in order to reconstruct the full reply.
#### reasoning
- `item/reasoning/summaryTextDelta` — streams readable reasoning summaries; `summaryIndex` increments when a new summary section opens.
- `item/reasoning/summaryPartAdded` — marks the boundary between reasoning summary sections for an `itemId`; subsequent `summaryTextDelta` entries share the same `summaryIndex`.
- `item/reasoning/textDelta` — streams raw reasoning text (only applicable for e.g. open source models); use `contentIndex` to group deltas that belong together before showing them in the UI.
