shell-tool-mcp/README.md, before:

# @openai/codex-shell-tool-mcp

**Note: This MCP server is still experimental. When using it with Codex CLI, ensure the CLI version matches the MCP server version.**

`@openai/codex-shell-tool-mcp` is an MCP server that provides a tool named `shell` that runs a shell command inside a sandboxed instance of Bash. This special instance of Bash intercepts requests to spawn new processes (specifically, [`execve(2)`](https://man7.org/linux/man-pages/man2/execve.2.html) calls). For each call, it makes a request back to the MCP server to determine whether to allow the proposed command to execute. It also has the option of _escalating_ the command to run unprivileged outside of the sandbox governing the Bash process.

The user can use [Codex `.rules`](https://developers.openai.com/codex/local-config#rules-preview) files to define how a command should be handled. The action to take is determined by the `decision` parameter of a matching rule as follows:

- `allow`: the command will be _escalated_ and run outside the sandbox
- `prompt`: the command will be subject to human approval via an [MCP elicitation](https://modelcontextprotocol.io/specification/draft/client/elicitation) (it will run _escalated_ if approved)
- `forbidden`: the command will fail with exit code `1` and an error message will be written to `stderr`

Commands that do not match an explicit rule in `.rules` will be allowed to run as-is, though they will still be subject to the sandbox applied to the parent Bash process.

## Motivation

When a software agent asks if it is safe to run a command like `ls`, without more context, it is unclear whether it will result in executing `/bin/ls`. Consider:

- There could be another executable named `ls` that appears before `/bin/ls` on the `$PATH`.
- `ls` could be mapped to a shell alias or function.

Because `@openai/codex-shell-tool-mcp` intercepts `execve(2)` calls directly, it _always_ knows the full path to the program being executed. In turn, this makes it possible to provide stronger guarantees on how [Codex `.rules`](https://developers.openai.com/codex/local-config#rules-preview) are enforced.

## Usage

First, verify that you can download and run the MCP executable:

```bash
npx -y @openai/codex-shell-tool-mcp --version
```

To test out the MCP with a one-off invocation of Codex CLI, it is important to _disable_ the default shell tool in addition to enabling the MCP so Codex has exactly one shell-like tool available to it:

```bash
codex --disable shell_tool \
  --config 'mcp_servers.bash={command = "npx", args = ["-y", "@openai/codex-shell-tool-mcp"]}'
```

To configure this permanently so you can use the MCP while running `codex` without additional command-line flags, add the following to your `~/.codex/config.toml`:

```toml
[features]
shell_tool = false

[mcp_servers.shell-tool]
command = "npx"
args = ["-y", "@openai/codex-shell-tool-mcp"]
```

Note when the `@openai/codex-shell-tool-mcp` launcher runs, it selects the appropriate native binary to run based on the host OS/architecture. For the Bash wrapper, it inspects `/etc/os-release` on Linux or the Darwin major version on macOS to try to find the best match it has available. See [`bashSelection.ts`](https://github.com/openai/codex/blob/main/shell-tool-mcp/src/bashSelection.ts) for details.

## MCP Client Requirements

This MCP server is designed to be used with [Codex](https://developers.openai.com/codex/cli), as it declares the following `capability` that Codex supports when acting as an MCP client:

```json
{
  "capabilities": {
    "experimental": {
      "codex/sandbox-state": {
        "version": "1.0.0"
      }
    }
  }
}
```

This capability means the MCP server honors requests like the following to update the sandbox policy the MCP server uses when spawning Bash:

```json
{
  "id": "req-42",
  "method": "codex/sandbox-state/update",
  "params": {
    "sandboxPolicy": {
      "type": "workspace-write",
      "writable_roots": ["/home/user/code/codex"],
      "network_access": false,
      "exclude_tmpdir_env_var": false,
      "exclude_slash_tmp": false
    }
  }
}
```

Once the server has processed the update, it sends an empty response to acknowledge the request:

```json
{
  "id": "req-42",
  "result": {}
}
```

The Codex harness (used by the CLI and the VS Code extension) sends such requests to MCP servers that declare the `codex/sandbox-state` capability.

## Package Contents

This package wraps the `codex-exec-mcp-server` binary and its helpers so that the shell MCP can be invoked via `npx -y @openai/codex-shell-tool-mcp`. It bundles:

- `codex-exec-mcp-server` and `codex-execve-wrapper` built for macOS (arm64, x64) and Linux (musl arm64, musl x64).
- A patched Bash that honors `EXEC_WRAPPER`, built for multiple glibc baselines (Ubuntu 24.04/22.04/20.04, Debian 12/11, CentOS-like 9) and macOS (15/14/13).
- A launcher (`bin/mcp-server.js`) that picks the correct binaries for the current `process.platform` / `process.arch`, specifying `--execve` and `--bash` for the MCP, as appropriate.

See [the README in the Codex repo](https://github.com/openai/codex/blob/main/codex-rs/exec-server/README.md) for details.

Commit message:

refactor: delete exec-server and move execve wrapper into shell-escalation (#12632)
## Why

We already plan to remove the shell-tool MCP path, and doing that
cleanup first makes the follow-on `shell-escalation` work much simpler.

This change removes the last remaining reason to keep
`codex-rs/exec-server` around by moving the `codex-execve-wrapper`
binary and shared shell test fixtures to the crates/tests that now own
that functionality.

## What Changed

### Delete `codex-rs/exec-server`

- Remove the `exec-server` crate, including the MCP server binary,
MCP-specific modules, and its test support/test suite
- Remove `exec-server` from the `codex-rs` workspace and update
`Cargo.lock`

### Move `codex-execve-wrapper` into `codex-rs/shell-escalation`

- Move the wrapper implementation into `shell-escalation`
(`src/unix/execve_wrapper.rs`)
- Add the `codex-execve-wrapper` binary entrypoint under
`shell-escalation/src/bin/`
- Update `shell-escalation` exports/module layout so the wrapper
entrypoint is hosted there
- Move the wrapper README content from `exec-server` to
`shell-escalation/README.md`

### Move shared shell test fixtures to `app-server`

- Move the DotSlash `bash`/`zsh` test fixtures from
`exec-server/tests/suite/` to `app-server/tests/suite/`
- Update `app-server` zsh-fork tests to reference the new fixture paths

### Keep `shell-tool-mcp` as a shell-assets package

- Update `.github/workflows/shell-tool-mcp.yml` packaging so the npm
artifact contains only patched Bash/Zsh payloads (no Rust binaries)
- Update `shell-tool-mcp/package.json`, `shell-tool-mcp/src/index.ts`,
and docs to reflect the shell-assets-only package shape
- `shell-tool-mcp-ci.yml` does not need changes because it is already
JS-only

## Verification

- `cargo shear`
- `cargo clippy -p codex-shell-escalation --tests`
- `just clippy`

shell-tool-mcp/README.md, after:

# @openai/codex-shell-tool-mcp

**Note: This MCP server is still experimental. When using it with Codex CLI, ensure the CLI version matches the MCP server version.**

`@openai/codex-shell-tool-mcp` is an MCP server that provides a tool named `shell` that runs a shell command inside a sandboxed instance of Bash. This special instance of Bash intercepts requests to spawn new processes (specifically, [`execve(2)`](https://man7.org/linux/man-pages/man2/execve.2.html) calls). For each call, it makes a request back to the MCP server to determine whether to allow the proposed command to execute. It also has the option of _escalating_ the command to run unprivileged outside of the sandbox governing the Bash process.

The user can use [Codex `.rules`](https://developers.openai.com/codex/local-config#rules-preview) files to define how a command should be handled. The action to take is determined by the `decision` parameter of a matching rule as follows:

- `allow`: the command will be _escalated_ and run outside the sandbox
- `prompt`: the command will be subject to human approval via an [MCP elicitation](https://modelcontextprotocol.io/specification/draft/client/elicitation) (it will run _escalated_ if approved)
- `forbidden`: the command will fail with exit code `1` and an error message will be written to `stderr`

Commands that do not match an explicit rule in `.rules` will be allowed to run as-is, though they will still be subject to the sandbox applied to the parent Bash process.

## Motivation

When a software agent asks if it is safe to run a command like `ls`, without more context, it is unclear whether it will result in executing `/bin/ls`. Consider:

- There could be another executable named `ls` that appears before `/bin/ls` on the `$PATH`.
- `ls` could be mapped to a shell alias or function.

Because `@openai/codex-shell-tool-mcp` intercepts `execve(2)` calls directly, it _always_ knows the full path to the program being executed. In turn, this makes it possible to provide stronger guarantees on how [Codex `.rules`](https://developers.openai.com/codex/local-config#rules-preview) are enforced.

## Usage

First, verify that you can download and run the MCP executable:

```bash
npx -y @openai/codex-shell-tool-mcp --version
```

To test out the MCP with a one-off invocation of Codex CLI, it is important to _disable_ the default shell tool in addition to enabling the MCP so Codex has exactly one shell-like tool available to it:

```bash
codex --disable shell_tool \
  --config 'mcp_servers.bash={command = "npx", args = ["-y", "@openai/codex-shell-tool-mcp"]}'
```

To configure this permanently so you can use the MCP while running `codex` without additional command-line flags, add the following to your `~/.codex/config.toml`:

```toml
[features]
shell_tool = false

[mcp_servers.shell-tool]
command = "npx"
args = ["-y", "@openai/codex-shell-tool-mcp"]
```

Note when the `@openai/codex-shell-tool-mcp` launcher runs, it selects the appropriate native binary to run based on the host OS/architecture. For the Bash wrapper, it inspects `/etc/os-release` on Linux or the Darwin major version on macOS to try to find the best match it has available. See [`bashSelection.ts`](https://github.com/openai/codex/blob/main/shell-tool-mcp/src/bashSelection.ts) for details.

## MCP Client Requirements

This MCP server is designed to be used with [Codex](https://developers.openai.com/codex/cli), as it declares the following `capability` that Codex supports when acting as an MCP client:

```json
{
  "capabilities": {
    "experimental": {
      "codex/sandbox-state": {
        "version": "1.0.0"
      }
    }
  }
}
```

This capability means the MCP server honors requests like the following to update the sandbox policy the MCP server uses when spawning Bash:

```json
{
  "id": "req-42",
  "method": "codex/sandbox-state/update",
  "params": {
    "sandboxPolicy": {
      "type": "workspace-write",
      "writable_roots": ["/home/user/code/codex"],
      "network_access": false,
      "exclude_tmpdir_env_var": false,
      "exclude_slash_tmp": false
    }
  }
}
```

Once the server has processed the update, it sends an empty response to acknowledge the request:

```json
{
  "id": "req-42",
  "result": {}
}
```

The Codex harness (used by the CLI and the VS Code extension) sends such requests to MCP servers that declare the `codex/sandbox-state` capability.

## Package Contents

This package currently publishes shell binaries only. It bundles:

- A patched Bash that honors `EXEC_WRAPPER`, built for multiple glibc baselines (Ubuntu 24.04/22.04/20.04, Debian 12/11, CentOS-like 9) and macOS (15/14/13).
- A patched zsh with `EXEC_WRAPPER` support for the same supported target triples.

It does not currently include the Rust MCP server binaries.

See [the README in the Codex repo](https://github.com/openai/codex/blob/main/codex-rs/shell-escalation/README.md) for details.
