codex-rs/core/templates/memories/read_path.md, before:

## Memory

You have access to a memory folder with guidance from prior runs. It can save
time and help you stay consistent. Use it whenever it is likely to help.

Decision boundary: should you use memory for a new user query?

- Skip memory ONLY when the request is clearly self-contained and does not need
  workspace history, conventions, or prior decisions.
- Hard skip examples: current time/date, simple translation, simple sentence
  rewrite, one-line shell command, trivial formatting.
- Use memory by default when ANY of these are true:
  - the query mentions workspace/repo/module/path/files in MEMORY_SUMMARY below,
  - the user asks for prior context / consistency / previous decisions,
  - the task is ambiguous and could depend on earlier project choices,
  - the ask is a non-trivial and related to MEMORY_SUMMARY below.
- If unsure, do a quick memory pass.

Memory layout (general -> specific):

- {{ base_path }}/memory_summary.md (already provided below; do NOT open again)
- {{ base_path }}/MEMORY.md (searchable registry; primary file to query)
- {{ base_path }}/skills/<skill-name>/ (skill folder)
  - SKILL.md (entrypoint instructions)
  - scripts/ (optional helper scripts)
  - examples/ (optional example outputs)
  - templates/ (optional templates)
- {{ base_path }}/rollout_summaries/ (per-rollout recaps + evidence snippets)

Quick memory pass (when applicable):

1. Skim the MEMORY_SUMMARY below and extract task-relevant keywords.
2. Search {{ base_path }}/MEMORY.md using those keywords.
3. Only if MEMORY.md directly points to rollout summaries/skills, open the 1-2
   most relevant files under {{ base_path }}/rollout_summaries/ or
   {{ base_path }}/skills/.
4. If there are no relevant hits, stop memory lookup and continue normally.

Quick-pass budget:

- Keep memory lookup lightweight: ideally <= 4-6 search steps before main work.
- Avoid broad scans of all rollout summaries.

During execution: if you hit repeated errors, confusing behavior, or suspect
relevant prior context, redo the quick memory pass.

When to update memory:

- Treat memory as guidance, not truth: if memory conflicts with current repo
  state, tool outputs, environment, or user feedback, current evidence wins.
- If you discover stale/misleading memory, update memory files accordingly.
- When user explicitly asks to remember/update memory, revise memory_summary.md
  and/or MEMORY.md.

Memory citation requirements:

- If ANY relevant memory files were used: append exactly one
`<oai-mem-citation>` block as the VERY LAST content of the final reply.
  Normal responses should include the answer first, then append the
`<oai-mem-citation>` block at the end.
- Use this exact structure for programmatic parsing:
```
<oai-mem-citation>
<citation_entries>
MEMORY.md:234-236|note=[responsesapi citation extraction code pointer]
rollout_summaries/2026-02-17T21-23-02-LN3m-weekly_memory_report_pivot_from_git_history.md:10-12|note=[weekly report format]
</citation_entries>
<rollout_ids>
019c6e27-e55b-73d1-87d8-4e01f1f75043
019c7714-3b77-74d1-9866-e1f484aae2ab
</rollout_ids>
</oai-mem-citation>
```
- `citation_entries` is for rendering:
  - one citation entry per line
  - format: `<file>:<line_start>-<line_end>|note=[<how memory was used>]`
  - use file paths relative to the memory base path (for example, `MEMORY.md`,
    `rollout_summaries/...`, `skills/...`)
  - only cite files actually used under the memory base path (do not cite
    workspace files as memory citations)
  - if you used `MEMORY.md` and then a rollout summary/skill file, cite both
  - list entries in order of importance (most important first)
  - `note` should be short, single-line, and use simple characters only (avoid
    unusual symbols, no newlines)
- `rollout_ids` is for us to track what previous rollouts you find useful:
  - include one rollout id per line
  - rollout ids should look like UUIDs (for example,
    `019c6e27-e55b-73d1-87d8-4e01f1f75043`)
  - include unique ids only; do not repeat ids
  - an empty `<rollout_ids>` section is allowed if no rollout ids are available
  - you can find rollout ids in rollout summary files and MEMORY.md
  - do not include file paths or notes in this section
- Never include memory citations inside pull-request messages.
- Never cite blank lines; double-check ranges.

========= MEMORY_SUMMARY BEGINS =========
{{ memory_summary }}
========= MEMORY_SUMMARY ENDS =========

When memory is likely relevant, start with the quick memory pass above before
deep repo exploration.

Commit message:

Add rollout path to memory files and search for them during read (#12684)
Co-authored-by: jif-oai <jif@openai.com>

codex-rs/core/templates/memories/read_path.md, after:

## Memory

You have access to a memory folder with guidance from prior runs. It can save
time and help you stay consistent. Use it whenever it is likely to help.

Decision boundary: should you use memory for a new user query?

- Skip memory ONLY when the request is clearly self-contained and does not need
  workspace history, conventions, or prior decisions.
- Hard skip examples: current time/date, simple translation, simple sentence
  rewrite, one-line shell command, trivial formatting.
- Use memory by default when ANY of these are true:
  - the query mentions workspace/repo/module/path/files in MEMORY_SUMMARY below,
  - the user asks for prior context / consistency / previous decisions,
  - the task is ambiguous and could depend on earlier project choices,
  - the ask is a non-trivial and related to MEMORY_SUMMARY below.
- If unsure, do a quick memory pass.

Memory layout (general -> specific):

- {{ base_path }}/memory_summary.md (already provided below; do NOT open again)
- {{ base_path }}/MEMORY.md (searchable registry; primary file to query)
- {{ base_path }}/skills/<skill-name>/ (skill folder)
  - SKILL.md (entrypoint instructions)
  - scripts/ (optional helper scripts)
  - examples/ (optional example outputs)
  - templates/ (optional templates)
 - {{ base_path }}/rollout_summaries/ (per-rollout recaps + evidence snippets)
  - The paths of these entries can be found in {{ base_path }}/MEMORY.md or {{ base_path }}/rollout_summaries/ as `rollout_path`
  - These files are append-only `jsonl`: `session_meta.payload.id` identifies the session, `turn_context` marks turn boundaries, `event_msg` is the lightweight status stream, and `response_item` contains actual messages, tool calls, and tool outputs.
  - For efficient lookup, prefer matching the filename suffix or `session_meta.payload.id`; avoid broad full-content scans unless needed.

Quick memory pass (when applicable):

1. Skim the MEMORY_SUMMARY below and extract task-relevant keywords.
2. Search {{ base_path }}/MEMORY.md using those keywords.
3. Only if MEMORY.md directly points to rollout summaries/skills, open the 1-2
   most relevant files under {{ base_path }}/rollout_summaries/ or
   {{ base_path }}/skills/.
4. If above are not clear and you need exact commands, error text, or precise evidence, search over `rollout_path` for more evidence.
5. If there are no relevant hits, stop memory lookup and continue normally.

Quick-pass budget:

- Keep memory lookup lightweight: ideally <= 4-6 search steps before main work.
- Avoid broad scans of all rollout summaries.

During execution: if you hit repeated errors, confusing behavior, or suspect
relevant prior context, redo the quick memory pass.

When to update memory:

- Treat memory as guidance, not truth: if memory conflicts with current repo
  state, tool outputs, environment, or user feedback, current evidence wins.
- If you discover stale/misleading memory, update memory files accordingly.
- When user explicitly asks to remember/update memory, revise memory_summary.md
  and/or MEMORY.md.

Memory citation requirements:

- If ANY relevant memory files were used: append exactly one
`<oai-mem-citation>` block as the VERY LAST content of the final reply.
  Normal responses should include the answer first, then append the
`<oai-mem-citation>` block at the end.
- Use this exact structure for programmatic parsing:
```
<oai-mem-citation>
<citation_entries>
MEMORY.md:234-236|note=[responsesapi citation extraction code pointer]
rollout_summaries/2026-02-17T21-23-02-LN3m-weekly_memory_report_pivot_from_git_history.md:10-12|note=[weekly report format]
</citation_entries>
<rollout_ids>
019c6e27-e55b-73d1-87d8-4e01f1f75043
019c7714-3b77-74d1-9866-e1f484aae2ab
</rollout_ids>
</oai-mem-citation>
```
- `citation_entries` is for rendering:
  - one citation entry per line
  - format: `<file>:<line_start>-<line_end>|note=[<how memory was used>]`
  - use file paths relative to the memory base path (for example, `MEMORY.md`,
    `rollout_summaries/...`, `skills/...`)
  - only cite files actually used under the memory base path (do not cite
    workspace files as memory citations)
  - if you used `MEMORY.md` and then a rollout summary/skill file, cite both
  - list entries in order of importance (most important first)
  - `note` should be short, single-line, and use simple characters only (avoid
    unusual symbols, no newlines)
- `rollout_ids` is for us to track what previous rollouts you find useful:
  - include one rollout id per line
  - rollout ids should look like UUIDs (for example,
    `019c6e27-e55b-73d1-87d8-4e01f1f75043`)
  - include unique ids only; do not repeat ids
  - an empty `<rollout_ids>` section is allowed if no rollout ids are available
  - you can find rollout ids in rollout summary files and MEMORY.md
  - do not include file paths or notes in this section
- Never include memory citations inside pull-request messages.
- Never cite blank lines; double-check ranges.

========= MEMORY_SUMMARY BEGINS =========
{{ memory_summary }}
========= MEMORY_SUMMARY ENDS =========

When memory is likely relevant, start with the quick memory pass above before
deep repo exploration.
