docs/example-config.md, before:

# Example config.toml

Use this example configuration as a starting point. For an explanation of each field and additional context, see [Configuration](./config.md). Copy the snippet below to `~/.codex/config.toml` and adjust values as needed.

```toml
# Codex example configuration (config.toml)
#
# This file lists all keys Codex reads from config.toml, their default values,
# and concise explanations. Values here mirror the effective defaults compiled
# into the CLI. Adjust as needed.
#
# Notes
# - Root keys must appear before tables in TOML.
# - Optional keys that default to "unset" are shown commented out with notes.
# - MCP servers, profiles, and model providers are examples; remove or edit.

################################################################################
# Core Model Selection
################################################################################

# Primary model used by Codex. Default: "gpt-5.1-codex-max" on all platforms.
model = "gpt-5.1-codex-max"

# Model used by the /review feature (code reviews). Default: "gpt-5.1-codex-max".
review_model = "gpt-5.1-codex-max"

# Provider id selected from [model_providers]. Default: "openai".
model_provider = "openai"

# Optional manual model metadata. When unset, Codex auto-detects from model.
# Uncomment to force values.
# model_context_window = 128000       # tokens; default: auto for model
# model_auto_compact_token_limit = 0  # disable/override auto; default: model family specific
# tool_output_token_limit = 10000  # tokens stored per tool output; default: 10000 for gpt-5.1-codex-max

################################################################################
# Reasoning & Verbosity (Responses API capable models)
################################################################################

# Reasoning effort: minimal | low | medium | high | xhigh (default: medium; xhigh only on gpt-5.1-codex-max)
model_reasoning_effort = "medium"

# Reasoning summary: auto | concise | detailed | none (default: auto)
model_reasoning_summary = "auto"

# Text verbosity for GPT-5 family (Responses API): low | medium | high (default: medium)
model_verbosity = "medium"

# Force-enable reasoning summaries for current model (default: false)
model_supports_reasoning_summaries = false

# Force reasoning summary format: none | experimental (default: none)
model_reasoning_summary_format = "none"

################################################################################
# Instruction Overrides
################################################################################

# Additional user instructions appended after AGENTS.md. Default: unset.
# developer_instructions = ""

# Optional legacy base instructions override (prefer AGENTS.md). Default: unset.
# instructions = ""

# Inline override for the history compaction prompt. Default: unset.
# compact_prompt = ""

# Override built-in base instructions with a file path. Default: unset.
# experimental_instructions_file = "/absolute/or/relative/path/to/instructions.txt"

# Load the compact prompt override from a file. Default: unset.
# experimental_compact_prompt_file = "/absolute/or/relative/path/to/compact_prompt.txt"

################################################################################
# Approval & Sandbox
################################################################################

# When to ask for command approval:
# - untrusted: only known-safe read-only commands auto-run; others prompt
# - on-failure: auto-run in sandbox; prompt only on failure for escalation
# - on-request: model decides when to ask (default)
# - never: never prompt (risky)
approval_policy = "on-request"

# Filesystem/network sandbox policy for tool calls:
# - read-only (default)
# - workspace-write
# - danger-full-access (no sandbox; extremely risky)
sandbox_mode = "read-only"

# Extra settings used only when sandbox_mode = "workspace-write".
[sandbox_workspace_write]
# Additional writable roots beyond the workspace (cwd). Default: []
writable_roots = []
# Allow outbound network access inside the sandbox. Default: false
network_access = false
# Exclude $TMPDIR from writable roots. Default: false
exclude_tmpdir_env_var = false
# Exclude /tmp from writable roots. Default: false
exclude_slash_tmp = false

################################################################################
# Shell Environment Policy for spawned processes
################################################################################

[shell_environment_policy]
# inherit: all (default) | core | none
inherit = "all"
# Skip default excludes for names containing KEY/TOKEN (case-insensitive). Default: false
ignore_default_excludes = false
# Case-insensitive glob patterns to remove (e.g., "AWS_*", "AZURE_*"). Default: []
exclude = []
# Explicit key/value overrides (always win). Default: {}
set = {}
# Whitelist; if non-empty, keep only matching vars. Default: []
include_only = []
# Experimental: run via user shell profile. Default: false
experimental_use_profile = false

################################################################################
# History & File Opener
################################################################################

[history]
# save-all (default) | none
persistence = "save-all"
# Maximum bytes for history file (currently not enforced). Example: 5242880
# max_bytes = 0

# URI scheme for clickable citations: vscode (default) | vscode-insiders | windsurf | cursor | none
file_opener = "vscode"

################################################################################
# UI, Notifications, and Misc
################################################################################

[tui]
# Desktop notifications from the TUI: boolean or filtered list. Default: true
# Examples: false | ["agent-turn-complete", "approval-requested"]
notifications = false

# Enables welcome/status/spinner animations. Default: true
animations = true

# Suppress internal reasoning events from output. Default: false
hide_agent_reasoning = false

# Show raw reasoning content when available. Default: false
show_raw_agent_reasoning = false

# Disable burst-paste detection in the TUI. Default: false
disable_paste_burst = false

# Track Windows onboarding acknowledgement (Windows only). Default: false
windows_wsl_setup_acknowledged = false

# External notifier program (argv array). When unset: disabled.
# Example: notify = ["notify-send", "Codex"]
# notify = [ ]

# In-product notices (mostly set automatically by Codex).
[notice]
# hide_full_access_warning = true
# hide_rate_limit_model_nudge = true

################################################################################
# Authentication & Login
################################################################################

# Where to persist CLI login credentials: file (default) | keyring | auto
cli_auth_credentials_store = "file"

# Base URL for ChatGPT auth flow (not OpenAI API). Default:
chatgpt_base_url = "https://chatgpt.com/backend-api/"

# Restrict ChatGPT login to a specific workspace id. Default: unset.
# forced_chatgpt_workspace_id = ""

# Force login mechanism when Codex would normally auto-select. Default: unset.
# Allowed values: chatgpt | api
# forced_login_method = "chatgpt"

# Preferred store for MCP OAuth credentials: auto (default) | file | keyring
mcp_oauth_credentials_store = "auto"

################################################################################
# Project Documentation Controls
################################################################################

# Max bytes from AGENTS.md to embed into first-turn instructions. Default: 32768
project_doc_max_bytes = 32768

# Ordered fallbacks when AGENTS.md is missing at a directory level. Default: []
project_doc_fallback_filenames = []

################################################################################
# Tools (legacy toggles kept for compatibility)
################################################################################

[tools]
# Enable web search tool (alias: web_search_request). Default: false
web_search = false

# Enable the view_image tool so the agent can attach local images. Default: true
view_image = true

# (Alias accepted) You can also write:
# web_search_request = false

################################################################################
# Centralized Feature Flags (preferred)
################################################################################

[features]
# Leave this table empty to accept defaults. Set explicit booleans to opt in/out.
unified_exec = false
rmcp_client = false
apply_patch_freeform = false
view_image_tool = true
web_search_request = false
experimental_sandbox_command_assessment = false
ghost_commit = false
enable_experimental_windows_sandbox = false

################################################################################
# Experimental toggles (legacy; prefer [features])
################################################################################

# Use experimental unified exec tool. Default: false
experimental_use_unified_exec_tool = false

# Use experimental Rust MCP client (enables OAuth for HTTP MCP). Default: false
experimental_use_rmcp_client = false

# Include apply_patch via freeform editing path (affects default tool set). Default: false
experimental_use_freeform_apply_patch = false

# Define MCP servers under this table. Leave empty to disable.
[mcp_servers]

# --- Example: STDIO transport ---
# [mcp_servers.docs]
# command = "docs-server"                 # required
# args = ["--port", "4000"]               # optional
# env = { "API_KEY" = "value" }           # optional key/value pairs copied as-is
# env_vars = ["ANOTHER_SECRET"]            # optional: forward these from the parent env
# cwd = "/path/to/server"                 # optional working directory override
# startup_timeout_sec = 10.0               # optional; default 10.0 seconds
# # startup_timeout_ms = 10000              # optional alias for startup timeout (milliseconds)
# tool_timeout_sec = 60.0                  # optional; default 60.0 seconds
# enabled_tools = ["search", "summarize"]  # optional allow-list
# disabled_tools = ["slow-tool"]           # optional deny-list (applied after allow-list)

# --- Example: Streamable HTTP transport ---
# [mcp_servers.github]
# url = "https://github-mcp.example.com/mcp"  # required
# bearer_token_env_var = "GITHUB_TOKEN"        # optional; Authorization: Bearer <token>
# http_headers = { "X-Example" = "value" }    # optional static headers
# env_http_headers = { "X-Auth" = "AUTH_ENV" } # optional headers populated from env vars
# startup_timeout_sec = 10.0                   # optional
# tool_timeout_sec = 60.0                      # optional
# enabled_tools = ["list_issues"]             # optional allow-list

################################################################################
# Model Providers (extend/override built-ins)
################################################################################

# Built-ins include:
# - openai (Responses API; requires login or OPENAI_API_KEY via auth flow)
# - oss (Chat Completions API; defaults to http://localhost:11434/v1)

[model_providers]

# --- Example: override OpenAI with explicit base URL or headers ---
# [model_providers.openai]
# name = "OpenAI"
# base_url = "https://api.openai.com/v1"         # default if unset
# wire_api = "responses"                         # "responses" | "chat" (default varies)
# # requires_openai_auth = true                    # built-in OpenAI defaults to true
# # request_max_retries = 4                        # default 4; max 100
# # stream_max_retries = 5                         # default 5;  max 100
# # stream_idle_timeout_ms = 300000                # default 300_000 (5m)
# # experimental_bearer_token = "sk-example"      # optional dev-only direct bearer token
# # http_headers = { "X-Example" = "value" }
# # env_http_headers = { "OpenAI-Organization" = "OPENAI_ORGANIZATION", "OpenAI-Project" = "OPENAI_PROJECT" }

# --- Example: Azure (Chat/Responses depending on endpoint) ---
# [model_providers.azure]
# name = "Azure"
# base_url = "https://YOUR_PROJECT_NAME.openai.azure.com/openai"
# wire_api = "responses"                          # or "chat" per endpoint
# query_params = { api-version = "2025-04-01-preview" }
# env_key = "AZURE_OPENAI_API_KEY"
# # env_key_instructions = "Set AZURE_OPENAI_API_KEY in your environment"

# --- Example: Local OSS (e.g., Ollama-compatible) ---
# [model_providers.ollama]
# name = "Ollama"
# base_url = "http://localhost:11434/v1"
# wire_api = "chat"

################################################################################
# Profiles (named presets)
################################################################################

# Active profile name. When unset, no profile is applied.
# profile = "default"

[profiles]

# [profiles.default]
# model = "gpt-5.1-codex-max"
# model_provider = "openai"
# approval_policy = "on-request"
# sandbox_mode = "read-only"
# model_reasoning_effort = "medium"
# model_reasoning_summary = "auto"
# model_verbosity = "medium"
# chatgpt_base_url = "https://chatgpt.com/backend-api/"
# experimental_compact_prompt_file = "compact_prompt.txt"
# include_apply_patch_tool = false
# experimental_use_unified_exec_tool = false
# experimental_use_rmcp_client = false
# experimental_use_freeform_apply_patch = false
# experimental_sandbox_command_assessment = false
# tools_web_search = false
# tools_view_image = true
# features = { unified_exec = false }

################################################################################
# Projects (trust levels)
################################################################################

# Mark specific worktrees as trusted. Only "trusted" is recognized.
[projects]
# [projects."/absolute/path/to/project"]
# trust_level = "trusted"

################################################################################
# OpenTelemetry (OTEL) – disabled by default
################################################################################

[otel]
# Include user prompt text in logs. Default: false
log_user_prompt = false
# Environment label applied to telemetry. Default: "dev"
environment = "dev"
# Exporter: none (default) | otlp-http | otlp-grpc
exporter = "none"

# Example OTLP/HTTP exporter configuration
# [otel]
# exporter = { otlp-http = {
#   endpoint = "https://otel.example.com/v1/logs",
#   protocol = "binary",                      # "binary" | "json"
#   headers = { "x-otlp-api-key" = "${OTLP_TOKEN}" }
# }}

# Example OTLP/gRPC exporter configuration
# [otel]
# exporter = { otlp-grpc = {
#   endpoint = "https://otel.example.com:4317",
#   headers = { "x-otlp-meta" = "abc123" }
# }}

# Example OTLP exporter with mutual TLS
# [otel]
# exporter = { otlp-http = {
#   endpoint = "https://otel.example.com/v1/logs",
#   protocol = "binary",
#   headers = { "x-otlp-api-key" = "${OTLP_TOKEN}" },
#   tls = {
#     ca-certificate = "certs/otel-ca.pem",
#     client-certificate = "/etc/codex/certs/client.pem",
#     client-private-key = "/etc/codex/certs/client-key.pem",
#   }
# }}
```

Commit message:

Trim `history.jsonl` when `history.max_bytes` is set (#6242)
This PR honors the `history.max_bytes` configuration parameter by
trimming `history.jsonl` whenever it grows past the configured limit.
While appending new entries we retain the newest record, drop the oldest
lines to stay within the byte budget, and serialize the compacted file
back to disk under the same lock to keep writers safe.

docs/example-config.md, after:

# Example config.toml

Use this example configuration as a starting point. For an explanation of each field and additional context, see [Configuration](./config.md). Copy the snippet below to `~/.codex/config.toml` and adjust values as needed.

```toml
# Codex example configuration (config.toml)
#
# This file lists all keys Codex reads from config.toml, their default values,
# and concise explanations. Values here mirror the effective defaults compiled
# into the CLI. Adjust as needed.
#
# Notes
# - Root keys must appear before tables in TOML.
# - Optional keys that default to "unset" are shown commented out with notes.
# - MCP servers, profiles, and model providers are examples; remove or edit.

################################################################################
# Core Model Selection
################################################################################

# Primary model used by Codex. Default: "gpt-5.1-codex-max" on all platforms.
model = "gpt-5.1-codex-max"

# Model used by the /review feature (code reviews). Default: "gpt-5.1-codex-max".
review_model = "gpt-5.1-codex-max"

# Provider id selected from [model_providers]. Default: "openai".
model_provider = "openai"

# Optional manual model metadata. When unset, Codex auto-detects from model.
# Uncomment to force values.
# model_context_window = 128000       # tokens; default: auto for model
# model_auto_compact_token_limit = 0  # disable/override auto; default: model family specific
# tool_output_token_limit = 10000  # tokens stored per tool output; default: 10000 for gpt-5.1-codex-max

################################################################################
# Reasoning & Verbosity (Responses API capable models)
################################################################################

# Reasoning effort: minimal | low | medium | high | xhigh (default: medium; xhigh only on gpt-5.1-codex-max)
model_reasoning_effort = "medium"

# Reasoning summary: auto | concise | detailed | none (default: auto)
model_reasoning_summary = "auto"

# Text verbosity for GPT-5 family (Responses API): low | medium | high (default: medium)
model_verbosity = "medium"

# Force-enable reasoning summaries for current model (default: false)
model_supports_reasoning_summaries = false

# Force reasoning summary format: none | experimental (default: none)
model_reasoning_summary_format = "none"

################################################################################
# Instruction Overrides
################################################################################

# Additional user instructions appended after AGENTS.md. Default: unset.
# developer_instructions = ""

# Optional legacy base instructions override (prefer AGENTS.md). Default: unset.
# instructions = ""

# Inline override for the history compaction prompt. Default: unset.
# compact_prompt = ""

# Override built-in base instructions with a file path. Default: unset.
# experimental_instructions_file = "/absolute/or/relative/path/to/instructions.txt"

# Load the compact prompt override from a file. Default: unset.
# experimental_compact_prompt_file = "/absolute/or/relative/path/to/compact_prompt.txt"

################################################################################
# Approval & Sandbox
################################################################################

# When to ask for command approval:
# - untrusted: only known-safe read-only commands auto-run; others prompt
# - on-failure: auto-run in sandbox; prompt only on failure for escalation
# - on-request: model decides when to ask (default)
# - never: never prompt (risky)
approval_policy = "on-request"

# Filesystem/network sandbox policy for tool calls:
# - read-only (default)
# - workspace-write
# - danger-full-access (no sandbox; extremely risky)
sandbox_mode = "read-only"

# Extra settings used only when sandbox_mode = "workspace-write".
[sandbox_workspace_write]
# Additional writable roots beyond the workspace (cwd). Default: []
writable_roots = []
# Allow outbound network access inside the sandbox. Default: false
network_access = false
# Exclude $TMPDIR from writable roots. Default: false
exclude_tmpdir_env_var = false
# Exclude /tmp from writable roots. Default: false
exclude_slash_tmp = false

################################################################################
# Shell Environment Policy for spawned processes
################################################################################

[shell_environment_policy]
# inherit: all (default) | core | none
inherit = "all"
# Skip default excludes for names containing KEY/TOKEN (case-insensitive). Default: false
ignore_default_excludes = false
# Case-insensitive glob patterns to remove (e.g., "AWS_*", "AZURE_*"). Default: []
exclude = []
# Explicit key/value overrides (always win). Default: {}
set = {}
# Whitelist; if non-empty, keep only matching vars. Default: []
include_only = []
# Experimental: run via user shell profile. Default: false
experimental_use_profile = false

################################################################################
# History & File Opener
################################################################################

[history]
# save-all (default) | none
persistence = "save-all"
# Maximum bytes for history file; oldest entries are trimmed when exceeded. Example: 5242880
# max_bytes = 0

# URI scheme for clickable citations: vscode (default) | vscode-insiders | windsurf | cursor | none
file_opener = "vscode"

################################################################################
# UI, Notifications, and Misc
################################################################################

[tui]
# Desktop notifications from the TUI: boolean or filtered list. Default: true
# Examples: false | ["agent-turn-complete", "approval-requested"]
notifications = false

# Enables welcome/status/spinner animations. Default: true
animations = true

# Suppress internal reasoning events from output. Default: false
hide_agent_reasoning = false

# Show raw reasoning content when available. Default: false
show_raw_agent_reasoning = false

# Disable burst-paste detection in the TUI. Default: false
disable_paste_burst = false

# Track Windows onboarding acknowledgement (Windows only). Default: false
windows_wsl_setup_acknowledged = false

# External notifier program (argv array). When unset: disabled.
# Example: notify = ["notify-send", "Codex"]
# notify = [ ]

# In-product notices (mostly set automatically by Codex).
[notice]
# hide_full_access_warning = true
# hide_rate_limit_model_nudge = true

################################################################################
# Authentication & Login
################################################################################

# Where to persist CLI login credentials: file (default) | keyring | auto
cli_auth_credentials_store = "file"

# Base URL for ChatGPT auth flow (not OpenAI API). Default:
chatgpt_base_url = "https://chatgpt.com/backend-api/"

# Restrict ChatGPT login to a specific workspace id. Default: unset.
# forced_chatgpt_workspace_id = ""

# Force login mechanism when Codex would normally auto-select. Default: unset.
# Allowed values: chatgpt | api
# forced_login_method = "chatgpt"

# Preferred store for MCP OAuth credentials: auto (default) | file | keyring
mcp_oauth_credentials_store = "auto"

################################################################################
# Project Documentation Controls
################################################################################

# Max bytes from AGENTS.md to embed into first-turn instructions. Default: 32768
project_doc_max_bytes = 32768

# Ordered fallbacks when AGENTS.md is missing at a directory level. Default: []
project_doc_fallback_filenames = []

################################################################################
# Tools (legacy toggles kept for compatibility)
################################################################################

[tools]
# Enable web search tool (alias: web_search_request). Default: false
web_search = false

# Enable the view_image tool so the agent can attach local images. Default: true
view_image = true

# (Alias accepted) You can also write:
# web_search_request = false

################################################################################
# Centralized Feature Flags (preferred)
################################################################################

[features]
# Leave this table empty to accept defaults. Set explicit booleans to opt in/out.
unified_exec = false
rmcp_client = false
apply_patch_freeform = false
view_image_tool = true
web_search_request = false
experimental_sandbox_command_assessment = false
ghost_commit = false
enable_experimental_windows_sandbox = false

################################################################################
# Experimental toggles (legacy; prefer [features])
################################################################################

# Use experimental unified exec tool. Default: false
experimental_use_unified_exec_tool = false

# Use experimental Rust MCP client (enables OAuth for HTTP MCP). Default: false
experimental_use_rmcp_client = false

# Include apply_patch via freeform editing path (affects default tool set). Default: false
experimental_use_freeform_apply_patch = false

# Define MCP servers under this table. Leave empty to disable.
[mcp_servers]

# --- Example: STDIO transport ---
# [mcp_servers.docs]
# command = "docs-server"                 # required
# args = ["--port", "4000"]               # optional
# env = { "API_KEY" = "value" }           # optional key/value pairs copied as-is
# env_vars = ["ANOTHER_SECRET"]            # optional: forward these from the parent env
# cwd = "/path/to/server"                 # optional working directory override
# startup_timeout_sec = 10.0               # optional; default 10.0 seconds
# # startup_timeout_ms = 10000              # optional alias for startup timeout (milliseconds)
# tool_timeout_sec = 60.0                  # optional; default 60.0 seconds
# enabled_tools = ["search", "summarize"]  # optional allow-list
# disabled_tools = ["slow-tool"]           # optional deny-list (applied after allow-list)

# --- Example: Streamable HTTP transport ---
# [mcp_servers.github]
# url = "https://github-mcp.example.com/mcp"  # required
# bearer_token_env_var = "GITHUB_TOKEN"        # optional; Authorization: Bearer <token>
# http_headers = { "X-Example" = "value" }    # optional static headers
# env_http_headers = { "X-Auth" = "AUTH_ENV" } # optional headers populated from env vars
# startup_timeout_sec = 10.0                   # optional
# tool_timeout_sec = 60.0                      # optional
# enabled_tools = ["list_issues"]             # optional allow-list

################################################################################
# Model Providers (extend/override built-ins)
################################################################################

# Built-ins include:
# - openai (Responses API; requires login or OPENAI_API_KEY via auth flow)
# - oss (Chat Completions API; defaults to http://localhost:11434/v1)

[model_providers]

# --- Example: override OpenAI with explicit base URL or headers ---
# [model_providers.openai]
# name = "OpenAI"
# base_url = "https://api.openai.com/v1"         # default if unset
# wire_api = "responses"                         # "responses" | "chat" (default varies)
# # requires_openai_auth = true                    # built-in OpenAI defaults to true
# # request_max_retries = 4                        # default 4; max 100
# # stream_max_retries = 5                         # default 5;  max 100
# # stream_idle_timeout_ms = 300000                # default 300_000 (5m)
# # experimental_bearer_token = "sk-example"      # optional dev-only direct bearer token
# # http_headers = { "X-Example" = "value" }
# # env_http_headers = { "OpenAI-Organization" = "OPENAI_ORGANIZATION", "OpenAI-Project" = "OPENAI_PROJECT" }

# --- Example: Azure (Chat/Responses depending on endpoint) ---
# [model_providers.azure]
# name = "Azure"
# base_url = "https://YOUR_PROJECT_NAME.openai.azure.com/openai"
# wire_api = "responses"                          # or "chat" per endpoint
# query_params = { api-version = "2025-04-01-preview" }
# env_key = "AZURE_OPENAI_API_KEY"
# # env_key_instructions = "Set AZURE_OPENAI_API_KEY in your environment"

# --- Example: Local OSS (e.g., Ollama-compatible) ---
# [model_providers.ollama]
# name = "Ollama"
# base_url = "http://localhost:11434/v1"
# wire_api = "chat"

################################################################################
# Profiles (named presets)
################################################################################

# Active profile name. When unset, no profile is applied.
# profile = "default"

[profiles]

# [profiles.default]
# model = "gpt-5.1-codex-max"
# model_provider = "openai"
# approval_policy = "on-request"
# sandbox_mode = "read-only"
# model_reasoning_effort = "medium"
# model_reasoning_summary = "auto"
# model_verbosity = "medium"
# chatgpt_base_url = "https://chatgpt.com/backend-api/"
# experimental_compact_prompt_file = "compact_prompt.txt"
# include_apply_patch_tool = false
# experimental_use_unified_exec_tool = false
# experimental_use_rmcp_client = false
# experimental_use_freeform_apply_patch = false
# experimental_sandbox_command_assessment = false
# tools_web_search = false
# tools_view_image = true
# features = { unified_exec = false }

################################################################################
# Projects (trust levels)
################################################################################

# Mark specific worktrees as trusted. Only "trusted" is recognized.
[projects]
# [projects."/absolute/path/to/project"]
# trust_level = "trusted"

################################################################################
# OpenTelemetry (OTEL) – disabled by default
################################################################################

[otel]
# Include user prompt text in logs. Default: false
log_user_prompt = false
# Environment label applied to telemetry. Default: "dev"
environment = "dev"
# Exporter: none (default) | otlp-http | otlp-grpc
exporter = "none"

# Example OTLP/HTTP exporter configuration
# [otel]
# exporter = { otlp-http = {
#   endpoint = "https://otel.example.com/v1/logs",
#   protocol = "binary",                      # "binary" | "json"
#   headers = { "x-otlp-api-key" = "${OTLP_TOKEN}" }
# }}

# Example OTLP/gRPC exporter configuration
# [otel]
# exporter = { otlp-grpc = {
#   endpoint = "https://otel.example.com:4317",
#   headers = { "x-otlp-meta" = "abc123" }
# }}

# Example OTLP exporter with mutual TLS
# [otel]
# exporter = { otlp-http = {
#   endpoint = "https://otel.example.com/v1/logs",
#   protocol = "binary",
#   headers = { "x-otlp-api-key" = "${OTLP_TOKEN}" },
#   tls = {
#     ca-certificate = "certs/otel-ca.pem",
#     client-certificate = "/etc/codex/certs/client.pem",
#     client-private-key = "/etc/codex/certs/client-key.pem",
#   }
# }}
```
