docs/install.md, before:

## Install & build

### System requirements

| Requirement                 | Details                                                         |
| --------------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Operating systems           | macOS 12+, Ubuntu 20.04+/Debian 10+, or Windows 11 **via WSL2** |
| Git (optional, recommended) | 2.23+ for built-in PR helpers                                   |
| RAM                         | 4-GB minimum (8-GB recommended)                                 |

### DotSlash

The GitHub Release also contains a [DotSlash](https://dotslash-cli.com/) file for the Codex CLI named `codex`. Using a DotSlash file makes it possible to make a lightweight commit to source control to ensure all contributors use the same version of an executable, regardless of what platform they use for development.

### Build from source

```bash
# Clone the repository and navigate to the root of the Cargo workspace.
git clone https://github.com/openai/codex.git
cd codex/codex-rs

# Install the Rust toolchain, if necessary.
curl --proto '=https' --tlsv1.2 -sSf https://sh.rustup.rs | sh -s -- -y
source "$HOME/.cargo/env"
rustup component add rustfmt
rustup component add clippy

# Build Codex.
cargo build

# Launch the TUI with a sample prompt.
cargo run --bin codex -- "explain this codebase to me"

# After making changes, ensure the code is clean.
cargo fmt -- --config imports_granularity=Item
cargo clippy --tests

# Run the tests.
cargo test
```

Commit message:

docs: point dev checks to just (#7673)
Update install and contributing guides to use the root justfile helpers
(`just fmt`, `just fix -p <crate>`, and targeted tests) instead of the
older cargo fmt/clippy/test instructions that have been in place since
459363e17b. This matches the justfile relocation to the repo root in
952d6c946 and the current lint/test workflow for CI (see
`.github/workflows/rust-ci.yml`).

docs/install.md, after:

## Install & build

### System requirements

| Requirement                 | Details                                                         |
| --------------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Operating systems           | macOS 12+, Ubuntu 20.04+/Debian 10+, or Windows 11 **via WSL2** |
| Git (optional, recommended) | 2.23+ for built-in PR helpers                                   |
| RAM                         | 4-GB minimum (8-GB recommended)                                 |

### DotSlash

The GitHub Release also contains a [DotSlash](https://dotslash-cli.com/) file for the Codex CLI named `codex`. Using a DotSlash file makes it possible to make a lightweight commit to source control to ensure all contributors use the same version of an executable, regardless of what platform they use for development.

### Build from source

```bash
# Clone the repository and navigate to the root of the Cargo workspace.
git clone https://github.com/openai/codex.git
cd codex/codex-rs

# Install the Rust toolchain, if necessary.
curl --proto '=https' --tlsv1.2 -sSf https://sh.rustup.rs | sh -s -- -y
source "$HOME/.cargo/env"
rustup component add rustfmt
rustup component add clippy
# Install helper tools used by the workspace justfile:
cargo install just
# Optional: install nextest for the `just test` helper (or use `cargo test --all-features` as a fallback)
cargo install cargo-nextest

# Build Codex.
cargo build

# Launch the TUI with a sample prompt.
cargo run --bin codex -- "explain this codebase to me"

# After making changes, use the root justfile helpers (they default to codex-rs):
just fmt
just fix -p <crate-you-touched>

# Run the relevant tests (project-specific is fastest), for example:
cargo test -p codex-tui
# If you have cargo-nextest installed, `just test` runs the full suite:
just test
# Otherwise, fall back to:
cargo test --all-features
```
